---
layout: blog
title:  "A faker's poetry"
date:   2015-12-01 00:00:00
categories: blog
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
style: |
  ul {
    list-style: none;
    padding-left: 15px;
  }
---

American born in the 19th century, the young Bucky witnessed modernity revolve culture.
In his Lifetime humanity built cars, aircrafts, atomic bombs, telephones, World Wars, and spaceships.
His generation of inventors and creators were the young who saw the world rekindle anew in modernism on the new land America.
The explorer, consumer, inventor, and libertine american dream were soil for post-modern culture.

<!--more-->

{% include figure.html 
	description="Bucky's logo reconstructed and drawn on Bristol paper."
	caption="Bucky's logo reconstructed and drawn on Bristol paper."
	url="fuller-logo.jpg"
%}

In his early years Fuller developed very little of what was yet to be seen, he was expelled twice from Harvard University opening his trail of misfortunate serial failures. Working on meat-packing, textiles and on WWI, Fuller learned the skills that helped him fail on investing his father-in-law's money. The Stockade Building System offered avant-garde fire-proof, weather-proof and light house building materials; yet it failed.

{% include figure.html 
	class="right"
	description="Bucky's logo reconstructed as a 3D model on Bristol paper."
	caption="Bucky's logo reconstructed as a 3D model on Bristol paper."
	url="fuller-logo-alt.jpeg"
%}

Many years after the loss of his firstborn Alexandra, Fuller took a turn on his life. After cogitating suicide, he realized his life was not his to leave. This realization lead his walk freely invention through invention on his futuristic anthem: "Do more with less". All his failed developments call for projections, thinking and conception manners feasible but uncanny for even current society. Fuller reimagined industries demonstrating practical plans for the housing, vehicle, urbanizing and building industries.

Buckminster Fuller developed the Dymaxion House concept. Built mostly of metal it mimicked the "space-age" technology on a lightweight single household unit. It's form is based on a single proportional triangle and its division by powers of 2, as shown on the technical design. It was thought from the ground up to remodel our relationship with the domestic habitat.

{% include figure.html 
	description="Dimaxion housing unit reconstructed with a perfect triangle symmetry on Bristol paper."
	caption="Dimaxion housing unit reconstructed with a perfect triangle symmetry on Bristol paper."
	url="fuller-house.jpeg"
%}

Aiming tor the stars, Fuller's Spaceship Earth launched new ways of interaction between human and environment. The pretentious and failed inventor, writer, mathematician and poet is to be found on the work of many scientists, creatives, artists and environmentalists for years to come. Fuller's life and what he developed will help humanity guide its future.

{% include figure.html 
	description="Montreal dome on Bristol paper."
	caption="Montreal dome on Bristol paper."
	url="fuller-montreal.jpg"
%}

## References

- [Southern California Architectural History / Living Lightly on the Land / Bernard Judge 'Triponent' and 'Tree' Houses](http://socalarchhistory.blogspot.fr/2011/07/living-lightly-on-land-bernard-judges.html)
- [“SPACESHIP EARTH”: ENVISIONING HUMAN HABITATS IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL AGE by Sabina Höhler](http://www.ghi-dc.org/files/publications/bulletin/bu042/065_nocartoon.pdf)
- [The World of Buckminster Fuller — Thinking out loud (1996)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YbBKRRB1E9U)
- [Architecture Buckminster Fuller](http://www.arttattler.com/architecturebuckminsterfuller.html)
- [Episode 64: Derelict Dome on 99PI](http://99percentinvisible.org/episode/episode-64-deliric-dome/)

See also the [full poster layout](/images/fuller-layout.jpg).
